This sweet chutney is called as Meetha (which means sweet) Pani. The spicy water is called as Teekha (which means spicy) Pani. both are added in the puri along with the main filling which consists of boiled potatoes, cooked chickpeas, moong sprouts or a thick dry curry made from white peas which is called as Ragda.
I don’t know who invented pani puri or how it came into existence. Its one of the popular street foods of India. Whereas in Mumbai, we call it pani puri. In the northern states, its called Golgappa and in bengal, its called as puchka. In Bihar and Jharkand its known as gupchup.
As mentioned above, this pani recipe is both spicy, tangy as well as sweet. so you don’t need to make the sweet tamarind chutney. However if you want a more sweeter taste, you can make the sweet chutney and serve with the pani puri.

If you are a foodie then there few more delicious street food recipes from Mumbai which you can easily make at home like:

Ragda patties

Pav bhaji
Bhel puri
Sev puri
Misal pav
Few suggestions for making pani puri
The puri or pooris for making pani puri are made from flour or sooji (cream of wheat or rava) or both. These can be brought ready from the stores or can be made at home too.
If you want to make pooris at home, then check this post -> Puri recipe for golgappa.
For the stuffing, you can use your choice of fillings. At home we prefer moong sprouts or ragda. You can also use boiled potatoes and onions. Even boiled white chickpeas or black chickpeas can be used along with boiled potatoes. If you want to use moong sprouts as the filling, then you can check this recipe of Mumbai style pani puri with moong sprouts.

Assemble everything before you begin to make pani puri.
You can prepare the pani before a few hours and then chill it in the fridge.
Adding ice cubes may dilute the taste and flavor of the pani.
Addition of black salt gives a really good taste and flavor. So if possible do try to add black salt in the pani recipe.
puri for pani puri recipe

How to make pani puri with moong sprouts
1. Rinse 1 cup tightly packed coriander leaves, ½ cup tightly packed mint leaves, 2 to 3 green chilies and 1 inch ginger very well. Peel the ginger and roughly chop it. Also chop the green chilies. Roughly chop the coriander leaves and mint leaves.

making pani puri recipe

2. Add coriander leaves, mint leaves, ginger and green chili in a grinder or blender jar. For a less spicy pani you can add just 1 chopped green chilli.

making pani puri recipe
3. Add 1 tablespoon tightly packed tamarind and 3.5 to 4 tablespoons jaggery powder or grated jaggery. If you do not have tamarind, then you can use 2 tablespoons lemon juice. You can also use equal amounts of jaggery and dates. So you can add 2 tablespoons crumbled jaggery and 2 tablespoons chopped dates.


making pani puri recipe
4. Now add 1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder, 1 teaspoon chaat masala and salt as per taste.

making pani puri recipe
5. Add ⅓ cup water and grind to a smooth consistency.

making pani puri recipe
6. Remove the chutney in a bowl or a small pan.

making pani puri recipe
7. Now add ½ cup water in the grinder jar and swirl the jar so that the chutney at the sides of the jar gets mixed with the water.

making pani puri recipe
8. Add this water in the bowl.

making pani puri recipe
9. Then add ½ to ¾ cup water. You can add less or more water depending on the consistency you want. But do not add too much water as then the taste & flavor of the pani reduces. Also check the taste and if required you can add some more jaggery or salt.

making pani puri recipe
10. Mix very well. Cover the pan and refrigerate the pani. Before refrigerating you can also add 1 to 1.5 tablespoon boondi.

making pani puri recipe
Making potato filling for pani puri
11. Boil 2 to 3 medium potatoes. When warm, peel them and chop them in small cubes. You can also add some boiled moong sprouts. Some finely chopped onions can also be added.

making pani puri recipe
12. Add 1 to 1.5 tablespoon chopped coriander leaves.

making pani puri recipe
13. Then add ¼ teaspoon red chili powder, 1 teaspoon chaat masala and 1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder. Also add salt as per taste.

making pani puri recipe
14. Mix very well. Keep aside.

making pani puri recipe
Making pani puri
15. Keep everything ready before you start assembling the pani puri. The potato filling, pooris and the pani. In the pics below, I have made sweet tamarind dates chutney, just to show the assembling. First crack the top pooris with the spoon or your fingers. Then stuff the potato filling in the pooris. Add a few teaspoons of sweet chutney or as per your choice. Addition of sweet chutney is optional for the pani recipe shared in this post.

pani puri
16. Then add a few teaspoons of the green pani or as per your choice.

adding green chutney in the pani puri
17. The pani puri is ready to serve. they have to be had immediately. Or else the puris become soggy. To make a Mumbai style pani puri recipe, use ragda or moong sprouts as the filling. You can check this recipe of Mumbai style pani puri with ragda where I have used moong sprouts as the filling.

pani puri recipe
If you made this recipe, please be sure to rate it in the recipe card below. Sign Up for my email newsletter or you can follow me on Instagram, Facebook, Youtube, Pinterest or Twitter for more vegetarian inspirations.

pani puri recipe
Pani Puri
4.85 from 73 votes
By Dassana Amit

Pani puri is a popular street food of India, where crisp fried dough balls are stuffed with potatoes, sprouts, spicy tangy water or sweet chutney.
 Save
 Pin
 Print
Prep Time
20 mins
Cook Time
15 mins
Total Time
35 mins
Cuisine
Indian
Course:
Snacks
Servings
4
 
Units
Ingredients
For Pani Puri Stuffing - * Check Notes For Other Options

▢2 to 3 medium potatoes
▢1 small to medium onion - optional
▢1 to 1.5 tablespoon chopped coriander leaves
(cilantro leaves)

▢1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder
▢1 teaspoon chaat masala powder
▢¼ teaspoon red chili powder, optional
▢black salt or regular salt as required
For Pani Recipe
▢½ cup tightly packed chopped mint leaves
▢1 cup tightly packed chopped coriander leaves
(cilantro leaves)

▢1 inch ginger, , chopped
▢2 to 3 green chilies, , chopped (for a less spicy pani, add about 1 green chili)

▢1 tablespoon tightly packed tamarind
▢3.5 to 4 tablespoons grated or powdered jaggery or sugar or add as required or 1.5 tablespoons chopped seedless dates & 1.5 tablespoons powdered jaggery, the sweetness can be adjusted as per your taste
▢1 teaspoon roasted cumin powder
▢1 teaspoon chaat masala powder
▢⅓ cup water, for grinding
▢1 to 1.25 cups water to be added later, add water as per the consistency you want
▢1 to 1.5 tablespoons boondi (fried tiny gram flour balls), optional
▢black salt or regular salt as required
Other Ingredients
▢24 to 30 puris, you could buy these puris readymade or make them at home
▢1 small bowl of tamarind chutney or tamarind dates chutney - optional


Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark while making the recipe
Instructions
Making Pani Puri Stuffing

Boil the potatoes till they are cooked completely.
Peel them and then chop them.
Finely chop the onion if using it.
In a small bowl, mix the potatoes, onions, coriander leaves, cumin powder, chaat masala powder and black salt or regular salt. Mix well and keep aside.
Making Pani For Pani Puri
In a blender add all the ingredients mentioned above for the pani.
Add water and grind to a fine chutney.
Remove the green chutney in a large bowl. Rinse the mixer jar with ½ cup water first and then add this water in the bowl. Then add ½ to ¾ cup more water.

Mix well. Check the seasoning. Add more salt or jeera powder or chaat masala or jaggery if required. If you want a thin pani, you could add some water. But keep on checking the seasoning, as per your taste.
Add the boondi to the pani.
You can chill the pani in the fridge or add some ice cubes to it.
Making Pani Puri
Crack the top of the puri with a spoon.
Add 2 to 3 teaspoons of the boiled potato-onion filling in the poori.
Stir the green pani first and then add it in the poori. Optionally you can add some sweet chutney in the puri. 
Serve the pani puri immediately.
You can also make individual portions with the puris, potato-onion mixture and the pani. Let the individual assemble the pani puri for himself/herself as per his/her taste.
Notes
Pani puri stuffing ideas

Other stuffing combinations for pani puri Or a combination of these:
Steamed moong sprouts
Boiled white chickpeas (kabuli chana)
Boiled black chickpeas (kala chana)
Boiled potatoes
Chopped onions
Chopped coriander leaves (cilantro leaves)
Ragda - a dry white peas curry
2. To make the pani hot and spicy, You can add one more green chili.
Like our videos? Then do follow and subscribe to us on youtube to get the latest Recipe Video updates.

Tried this recipe?
If you have made the recipe and liked it then do share the recipe link on facebook, twitter & pinterest. For instagram mention @dassanasvegrecipes and tag #dassanasvegrecipes!
All our content & photos are copyright protected. Please do not copy. As a blogger, if you you want to adapt this recipe or make a youtube video, then please write the recipe in your own words and give a clickable link back to the recipe on this url.

Share This Recipe:

Shares
3.2k

Meet Dassana

Welcome to Dassana's Veg Recipes. I share vegetarian recipes from India & around the World. Having been cooking for decades and with a professional background in cooking & baking, I help you to make your cooking journey easier with my tried and tested recipes showcased with step by step photos & plenty of tips & suggestions.

Learn More about Dassana
Get My Secrets to Great Indian Food
Sign up for my FREE Beginners Guide to Delicious Indian Cooking
First Name *
Your First Name
Email *
Your Email
Sign Up
Comments are closed.

134 Comments
Sreelu Mitta
Aug 24, 2019 at 6:42 am
I tried this recipe..it’s so yummy. My family loved it especially my daughter.
Thank you for posting this recipe.5 stars

Dassana Amit
Aug 24, 2019 at 7:06 pm
thanks sreelu for sharing this lovely review. glad to know. most welcome.

Pradyumna Nemade
Aug 22, 2019 at 5:05 pm
In Madhya Pradesh it is called ‘ fulki’ ☺️4 stars

Dassana Amit
Aug 22, 2019 at 8:24 pm
thanks for letting me know.

Fatema Hussain
Jun 11, 2019 at 7:36 pm
V helpful.. tried it.. my family loved it5 stars

Lakshmi
Jun 11, 2019 at 6:13 am
Hi
I added 1/2 tsp jaljeera powder and 1/2 tsp dry mango powder. Also 2-3 tbsp lemon juice. I also filtered the pani and used a tamarind chutney along with the filling too.

Dassana Amit
Jun 12, 2019 at 2:58 pm
thanks for sharing the variations you made.

See More Comments


Meet Dassana

Hi, I am Dassana. Running the kitchen for decades, I share tried and tested Vegetarian recipes on my food blog since 2009, with a step-by-step photo guide & plenty of tips so that your cooking journey is easier. I also have a professional background in cooking & baking.

Learn More about Dassana
Follow Us

Facebook YouTube Pinterest Twitter Instagram


Popular Recipes

paneer butter masala served in a blue rimmed white pan, garnished with cream and cilantro
Paneer Recipes

Paneer Butter Masala

dal makhani served in a copper bucket and garnished with three cilantro sprigs
Dal (Lentils) & Legumes

Dal Makhani

chana masala recipe, chole recipe, how to make chana masala
Chickpeas

Chana Masala | Punjabi Chole Masala (Stovetop & Instant Pot)

sambar filled in a white bowl placed on white plate on a brown wooden board
South Indian Food

Sambar Recipe (South Indian Lentil Vegetable Stew)

samosa arranged in a line on a cream tray with chutneys in small bowls and fried green chillies on the tray
Snacks Recipes

Samosa Recipe (Punjabi Samosa)

overhead shot of rajma recipe in a blue rimmed white bowl on a jute cloth with a brass spoon and bowl with onion rounds and lemon wedges
Dal (Lentils) & Legumes

Rajma Recipe (Kidney Bean Curry)

pav bhaji served in a rectangular serving tray with buttered pav and chopped onions, cilantro and lemon wedges on a white table
Snacks Recipes

Pav Bhaji – Mashed Spiced Vegetable Gravy

folded masala dosa in a white partitioned tray with sambar and coconut chutney
Breakfast Recipes

Masala Dosa

Popular Baking Recipes

eggless banana bread
Vegan Recipes

Banana Bread (Eggless And Vegan)

eggless chocolate chip cookies stacked with some halved cookies on a white plate
World Recipes

Eggless Chocolate Chip Cookies

Whole round Pizza on a wooden pizza plate with a cut triangular slice on left top side
Bread

Pizza Recipe | Veg Pizza

A triangular wedge of eggless chocolate cake on a white plate
Vegan Recipes

Eggless Chocolate 
